
== 2026-08-06 ==
Hello, and welcome to my public plan! This is where I will be posting updates and hopefully keeping myself somewhat accountable as time marches on and Chisel gets closer to release.

Here's the actual format for this:

* this star represents something I've noticed. Not really bad nor good, but just an observation.
? this question mark represents a bug I've found, and
+ represents a bug I've fixed.

Thanks for stopping by! I have some things to do already, but I'll update more here when that's actually closer.


Well, I've updated the site, and I've been working a lot more on the map logic scripting stuff. I have new docs on that, a bunch of new utilities that the scripts can use, etc etc.

I hope to get my update out to testers today. This one was pretty nice but not as crazy as others, and also had a lot of dumb fixes like:
+ entities save and load in their *exact* position, rather than weirdly bumping around occasionally. More on this below.
+ weapon mags in the FPS template properly save their current ammo as well as reserve.. whoops.
+ RW2 doesnt crash when pressing "tab" on non enitities or hints. Another silly whoops. Dunno how that one really slipped through.

I want to bring on my third wave of testers today, I wanted to plan for 4 waves of 4 people each, but I think I wanna up the numbers on these next two waves. One of the testers might even have a small little "crew" hopping in as well which would be super interesting to see. Can't say I'm not a little nervous... but doing this testing is making me slowly realize I probably don't need to be.

As for those dumb bugs, apparently the entity thing was caused by an old ancient bug from before I had a physics engine, which was overriding my very thoughtful matrix math to properly position and rotate the entity origin based on the bounds size for the physics engine... figures. At least it was an easy fix. Mags was simply because I'd migrated the weapons system... again... hopefully for the last time, and I completely reworked how the ammo systems worked. Just glossed over that part of it by accident, easy fix. All in all, as of 0.2.0 and now 0.2.1 with all of this stuff the engine is already getting very very stable. I'm really eager to see what happens further into testing as I bring on people with "higher expectations".



Wow, bash scripts are so easy. I just wrote one to completely recompile my maps folder at will for when I change the map spec. I expected a lot more of a wonky syntax but it's pretty simple stuff.
Anyway, back to packaging the SDK update....


Well, there it is! 6 new people. Well, 6 new people invited, 2 new people in the server so far. I really hope that testing continues to go well.... I mean, it's probably a bit silly to be worried, isnt it? 2 rounds of 4 people have already LOVED what they saw, and they saw a way worse version than these guys will. I guess it's just an adjustment to have my programming projects not be a big stinker.. haha. I am excited though!



* apparently the SDK bootstrapper (which is the first and only program I've ever made with GO) sometimes needs users to install a zenity package, but only on linux? weird. Go is a weird language.

Seems all in all that linux support is everywhere at the moment. Kind of strange, I've tested on distros before and never really had issues, but I'm not much of a linux-head either so who knows. I imagine it has something to do with the inherent unreliability of linux systems -- that being that they could literally be running any desktop, any window manager, and whatever else. So I have to imagine that makes making frameworks like .NET a bit of a tricky problem to solve.

In other news, it does seem that testing is going okay so far? I mean, it's still day-of, but there have been no crazy terrible issues. That sort of goes for all of testing. Just a bit shocking to me, I suppose.

I don't mean to make this my "vent place" or anything, this is predominantly a dev area. But, I feel like (much in the same vein as my videos with so much narration) maybe it's good for some people to see some of the humanity. If nothing else, I get to write my thoughts down.

Releasing something is terrifying. Especially of this magnitude. Chisel's upcoming release is the most scary thing. It's not because it's bad, I think that there's not really a way that the release could *be* bad -- I mean, the worst case is probably a couple sales here and there for source code access, a couple emails from people, and some leverage for whatever jobs I want to find after. Chisel doesnt really have a "bad outcome" because the "bad outcome" is just my life now, but also having a cool project out. I'm perfectly fine with that. The good outcome could be anywhere on a range of "niche success" to something way bigger that nobody can understand or gauge now. Being uncertain of *where* I will end up being on that spectrum is what scares me.

I get to pull the lever, I get to decide when it's "done" (which I'm sure it'll never *feel* done, such is the nature of passion projects). I don't know, something about having agency over when it happens is just so weird. It'd almost be better if it just leaked or something because then I wouldn't be able to scare myself... but obviously that's coping. I don't want that to happen, obviously, nobody does. I guess I'm just scared of not knowing. Not knowing what really will happen, how intense the reaction might be, if that reaction will even happen on launch or 5 years down the line... it's just a peculiar place to be in.

Obviously, I am excited at the end of the day. How could I not be? I'm releasing my mega passion project to the world, that's awesome! And truly, all outcomes from releasing Chisel are all equally as awesome to me. I just really wish I could make some kind of equation or something to logic-out this anticipation of waiting. I'll be happy I didn't find some magic formula when it DOES release, and I'll probably look back and say "Elgen, you dunce". Hi future me.

Anyway, thanks for reading my ramblings here if you did. Normal development logging stuff will return now haha. 


Alright, before I go to bed for the day I want to setup some actual plans for tomorrow. I really dont have much in the way of any more features I want to add, like, literally 0 at all. But I can do some editor work tomorrow because it needs some love.


* Fix that weird particle editor timeline thing
* Allow solo/mute in the particle editor
* Double check all particle features are exposed in the particle editor

* Clean up map editor and particle editor UI to match the new map editor UI
* More clearly show that the morph animator needs a model opened, but the choreo editor doesnt (possibly the choreo window is a whole separate window/tab to best demo)
* Fix that weird hitbox bug when in the preview tab of the model editor
* Investigate and fix the strange behavior when trying to add new attachment points


* Go through and clean up model, morph, choreo, and particle sections of the codebase. Document them all clearly both with comments and updated documentation on the site
* General code pass-through, like the 50th time, to make sure the nasty legacy dinosaur code is gone, make sure comments are accurate, and document poorly documented classes

There is probably more that I'll need to do.. but for now that's about all I can think of. Even all that alone would make a big difference.


Agh, noo a typo! I meant clean up MODEL editor UI, not map editor.
